---
title: "Base Learning, Self-Learning and Multi-view Learning on ACCORD Data"
author: "Melih Agraz"
output: R documents
---

# Description

This project provides a template structure of folders and files for Multi-view Learning ACCORD Project. You are going to see 3 different code structures like ```base_ML_.R```, ```self_ML_.R``` and ```CO_ML_.R```. 

```base_ML_.main.R```, ```self_ML_.main.R``` and ```CO_ML_.main.R``` are the main part of the conventional, self training and co-training of code,respectively and you have to run the ```base_ML_.run.R```, ```self_ML_.run.R``` and ```CO_ML_.run.R``` to run the main codes. You can see detailed explanation of these three ```main``` and ```run``` code. 

## Conventional Machine Learning (base_.R)

```base_ML.main.R``` is the main code of the conventional machine learning. You can run Logisctic Regression, Naive Bayes, XGBoost, Support Vector Machine and Random Forest conventional Machine Learning models. You must type ```method="Logisctic Regression"``` or ```method="Naive Bayes"``` or ```method="SVM"``` or ```method="Xgboost"``` or ```method="Random Forest"``` to run conventional machine learning models.  If your data is imbalanced, you can balance your data with ```imbalanced=TRUE```. You can choose the number of folds by ```n_fold```, default is 5.  We have already done the feature selection algorithm for ACCORD dataset and specified the selected features. For this reason, you can select these specified features by typing ```feature_sel =  "Boruta"``` or ```feature_sel =  "Boruta"``` or ```feature_sel =  "Boruta"``` OR if you want to work on only the full ACCORD data, you can type ```feature_sel =  "NO FS"```.

Column name of your response variable must be  ```out```.

### Example

If you want to run Logistic Regression, working on imbalanced data on train, without feature selection, with 5 fold cross validation, you can run the code below. 

```{r setup1, include=FALSE}
Baseline_Hyp(dataL = dataL, 
                 method           = "Logistic Regression" ,
                 imbalanced       =  TRUE,
                 feature_sel      =  "NO FS",
                 n_fold           =  5 
)
```

If you want to run SVM, working on NOT imbalanced data, with LASSO feature selection, with 5-fold cross validation, you can run the code below.  

```{r setup1, include=FALSE}
Baseline_Hyp(dataL = dataL, 
                 method           = "SVM" ,
                 imbalanced       =  FALSE,
                 feature_sel      =  "Lasso",
                 n_fold           =  5 
)
```

If you want to run all the combinations of ```method```, and ```feature_sel```, you can go to the ```base_ML.run.R``` (it is not necessary).  

## Self Learning (self_.R)
```self_ML.main.R``` is the main code of the self-learning algorithm. This code gives you an opportunity to run self learning algorithm only for Naive Bayes and Random Forest Model. You must type ```method="Naive Bayes"``` or ```method="Random Forest"``` to run machine learning models. If your data is imbalanced, you must type ```imbalanced=TRUE```, otherwise ```imbalanced=FALSE```. ```neg_conf_prob``` is a threshold probability for the negative pseudo-labeled class, i.e. the ones with the higher then ```neg_conf_prob``` will be labeled as "pseudo labels" in negative class. ```pos_conf_prob``` is a threshold probability for the positive pseudo labeled class. Default values are ```neg_conf_prob=0.9``` and ```pos_conf_prob=0.1```, so we are selecting the pseudo classes which is higher than 0.9 for both negative and positive classes. 





## R Template Project

This project provides a template structure of folders and files for an R project.

## Folder Structure

The project comprises of three main folders in which you would store certain files.

### data/

This folder should contain data files like .csv, .xls, .spss, etc.

In this folder:

- An example data set of bird information taken from the [UCLA statistics teaching material](http://www.stat.ucla.edu/projects/datasets/).

### R/

This folder should contain R script files.

In this folder:

- Template script with the key section headers described by the [Google's R Style Guide](https://google.github.io/styleguide/Rguide.xml).

### Rmd/

This folder should contain all R markdown and associated files.

In this folder:

- **reference_docx/** which should contain any reference documents to be used by R Markdown file. This currently includes:
  - A default APA-style word doc, "APA-style-01.docx"
- **bib/** which should contain bibliographies to be used by R Markdown file. This currently includes:
  - An example bibliography file, "example-bib.bib"
- **img/** which should contain images to be inserted into R Markdown file. This currently imcludes:
  - An image showing the output formats generated by R Markdown, "RMarkdownOutputFormats.png"
- A template R Markdown for producing APA-style word documents. For styling, this references "reference_docx/APA-style-01.docx"